                         PSP Software Development Kit
                               Version 1.0+beta2
                            http://www.pspdev.org/


Introduction

    The PSP Software Development Kit (PSPSDK) is a collection of Open Source
tools and libraries written for Sony's Playstation Portable (PSP) gaming
console.  It also includes documentation and other resources developers can
use to write software for the PSP.

    PSPSDK is distributed under a BSD-compatible license, with the exception
    of the files located in tools/PrxEncrypter. The files located in the
    tools/PrxEncrypter directory are subject to the terms of the GNU General
    Public License version 3. See the LICENSE files for more information.


Features

    PSPSDK provides a full set of libraries for creating PSP software:

    * Stub libraries and headers for interfacing with the PSP operating
      system, ranging from threading libraries, file io, display driver
	  and wifi networking.
    * Basic runtime support (crt0) for executables and libraries.
    * A minimal port of the Standard C Library (libc) is included.  PSPSDK's
      mini-libc provides portable memory allocation, string formatting, and
      several other Standard C Library functions.
    * Support code for linking with the full Standard C Library provided with
      the PSPDEV toolchain.
    * An implementation of the libGU graphics library.  libGU provides an
      interface to the 2D and 3D hardware acceleration features found in the
      PSP's Graphic Engine.
    * An implementation of the libGUM library. libGUM provides an interface
      for manipulating matrices for use in 3D software.
    * A simple audio library which can be used to play back PCM audio streams.
    * Support for building static executables and PRX files (relocatable
      modules).

    PSPSDK also includes several tools to assist in building PSP software:

    * bin2c, bin2o, and bin2s for converting binary files into C source,
      object files, and assembler source files, respectively.
    * mksfo for creating PARAM.SFO files.
    * pack-pbp and unpack-pbp for adding files to and removing files from
      EBOOT.PBP.
    * psp-config for locating PSPDEV tools and libraries.
    * psp-prxgen for converting specially made ELFs to PRX files.
    * psp-build-exports for creating export tables
    * psp-fixup-imports for fixing up import tables post-linking to remove
      unused functions from the executable.

    Documentation for the libraries are also provided, and can be found in the
doc/ directory of the PSPSDK source and binary distributions.

    A library for Make (build.mak) is also included to provide an easy way to
build simple programs and libraries.  See any PSPSDK sample program for
details on how build.mak is used.


Installation

    PSPSDK is distributed in both source and binary packages.  If you only
want to use the PSPSDK tools and libraries to develop your software you'll
want to grab the binary distribution of PSPSDK specific to your development
platform.  If you need fine-grained control over how PSPSDK is installed on
your system, or if you would like to modify PSPSDK then grab the source
distribution.  You can also install PSPSDK from Subversion, see "Installation
from Subversion" below for details.

  Requirements

    To use PSPSDK you must have the following software installed:

    * The PSPDEV Toolchain.  PSPSDK requires the GNU toolchain (GCC and
      binutils) targetted to the PSP.  You can find binary packages of these
      tools at http://www.pspdev.org/.  You can find a script to build and
      install the toolchain at http://www.oopo.net/consoledev/.

    In addition to the above requirements, if you plan on building PSPSDK from
source, you will need:

    * Make.  Note: GNU Make may not be required, but if you run into problems
      building from source you may want to install it.  You can find GNU Make
      at http://www.gnu.org/software/make/.

    If you plan on building PSPSDK directly from the Subversion repository you
will need:

    * A Subversion client.  A popular client for Windows is TortoiseSVN
      (http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/).
    * GNU autotools.  You will need a recent version of autoconf
      (http://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/) and automake
      (http://sourceware.org/automake/).

    The following packages are not required to build PSPSDK, but are used to
build documentation and other optional resources:

    * Doxygen.  You can find Doxygen at http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/.
      If you want to view the pretty source dependency graphs, then you will
      also need to install Graphviz (http://www.graphviz.org/).

  Installation from binary

    Download the PSPSDK binary package specific to your development system.
For example, if you are using Windows, you will want to download the file
pspsdk-1.0-win32.zip.

    Extract or unzip the package into the folder where the PSPDEV toolchain is
installed.  For example, on a Windows system you may have installed the PSPDEV
toolchain to C:\pspdev.  You would then unzip PSPSDK into C:\pspdev.

    Update your PATH environment variable to point to the PSPSDK tools
directory.  In the above example, if you installed PSPSDK to C:\pspdev, you
would add C:\pspdev\bin to your PATH.

  Installation from source

    PSPSDK uses the GNU autotools (autoconf and automake) for its build
system.  To install PSPSDK from a source distribution, run the following
commands after unpacking it:

    ./configure
    make
    make doxygen-doc
    make install

    If you haven't installed Doxygen or don't want to build the library
documentation, you can skip the

  Installation from Subversion

    PSPSDK can be found in the Subversion repository located at
svn://svn.pspdev.org/psp.  If you are using the command line version of the
Subversion client, you can the following command to download PSPSDK:

    svn co svn://svn.pspdev.org/psp/trunk/pspsdk

    Once you've downloaded PSPSDK, run the following from the pspsdk directory
to create the configure script and support files (you must have autoconf and
automake installed):

    ./bootstrap

    You can now run the commands listed in the "Installation from source"
section.


Notes

    * This is a BETA release of PSPSDK.  Some of the features and tools
      described here may not be fully implemented.

    * By default PSPSDK will install into the directory where the PSPDEV
      toolchain is installed.  If you decide to install PSPSDK somewhere else
      then you must define a PSPSDK environment variable that points to your
      alternate directory.  The psp-config build utility will look for PSPSDK
      in the location specified in the PSPSDK environment variable first, or
      use its own location to determine where PSPSDK is installed.

    * The Makefile templates provided by the sample code are designed for
      building a single executable or a library, but not both.  If you plan on
      using these templates in your project to build both libraries
      and executables be aware that you will have to structure your project so
      that each library and executable are built in a seperate directory.


Bugs

    If you find a bug in PSPSDK, send an e-mail describing the bug to
pspsdk-bugs@lists.ps2dev.org.  If possible, include any code or documentation
that can be used by the PSPSDK developers to recreate the bug.


Resources

  Mailing Lists

    pspsdk-bugs@lists.ps2dev.org

    Use this list to report any bugs you find in PSPSDK.  To subscribe, send an
    empty e-mail message to pspsdk-bugs-subscribe@lists.ps2dev.org.

    For a full list of PSP development mailing lists, see
    http://lists.ps2dev.org/.

  Web Forums

    http://forums.ps2dev.org/

    The PSP development forums are an excellent place to find out about the
    latest PSP homebrew games, demos, and other software.  PSPSDK has it's own
    dedicated forum titled 'PSPSDK Support and Development'.  Use this forum to
    find out about the most recent PSPSDK developments and to ask questions
    about PSPSDK.

  Subversion

    svn://svn.pspdev.org/
    http://svn.pspdev.org/

    PSPDEV tools and libraries can be found in the psp/ repository at
    svn://svn.pspdev.org/.  PSP homebrew games, demos, and other applications
    can be found in the pspware/ repository located at the same URL.  To view
    the contents of these repositories using a Web browser, visit
    http://svn.pspdev.org/.

  Internet Relay Chat (IRC)

    The PSPSDK developers can be found hanging out in the #pspdev channel
    on irc.freenode.net.

Thanks
    The pspsdk developers wish to thank all the people who have contributed
    bug fixes, ideas and support for the project.
    Also big thanks to nem for kicking off PSP development with all his work,
    the original imports system is based on his work in the hello world demo.
